
Popular Magazines-DO NOT USE
Psychology Today

Women’s Studies Quarterly

Ladies Home Journal

Science

Scientific American

Current Issues in Psychological Science

National Geographic

Journal of American History

Time

Journal of Marriage and the Family

Family Circle

JAMA (Journal of the American Medical
Association)

Health

Child Development

Parents

Remember to cite your articles using APA formatting. For detailed tutorials and information on
APA format, see associated items on Blackboard or visit the Stevenson Library resources. Here’s
a quick example:
Author Last Name, Initial of First Name. (Year of publication). Title of the article. Title of
Periodical, Volume number(Issue number), page numbers. Retrieved from Name of database.
doi:10##########
So it would look like this:

Smith, A. B. & Jones, C. (2011). How not to plagiarize: A simple guide. The
Journal of Citations, 8(2), 26-34. Retrieved from imaginary database.
NOTE: the title of the article is NOT capitalized, but the name of the journal is. Only last names
of the authors are spelled out and there are no titles (Dr. or Ph.D). Follow punctuation exactly.
Even if an article is retrieved off of the internet, the basic citation information must be included.

Table of Contents
Syllabi

CHS 201 Human Services and Social Policy
Fall 2018
INSTRUCTOR INFORMATION
Dr. Mayaugust Finkenberg
Telephone number: 443-334-2491
Stevenson email: mfinkenberg@stevenson.edu​​
Best times for phone contact: Call anytime and leave a voicemail if I am not in
Office location: LRC 115. This is on the second floor of the Greenspring Library
Office hours: Tuesdays 12:30-2 /Thursdays 12:30-1. I am available outside of my office hours, you are welcome to stop in
anytime my door is open or email for an appointment.
Class Schedule
COURSE INFORMATION
CHS 201- Human Services and Social Policy
Section number: 2
Credits: 3 credits
Prerequisite(s):ENG 151 .
Classroom or Studio Location: Dawson Center 301
Scheduled Class Days and Time: Tu/ Thurs 9:30-10:45
Course Description: This course provides an overview of the goals, functions and organization of human services for
individuals and groups. Students also examine the major theoretical approaches for helping people in need and the
various functions of professionals in human services.
Instructional Methods Used in this Course: : Course objectives will be achieved by a variety of methods which include
lecture, class discussions, group projects, papers, guest speakers, videos, and fieldwork
Required and Recommended Texts, Manuals, and Supplies: There is no required text for this course. There ARE
reading materials. All reading materials are linked in the class Blackboard site.
COURSE OUTCOMES
1.​

Course Objectives/Learning Outcomes: Identify the goals, functions, and organization of human services
and their relationship to the various roles of human service workers.

2.​

Identify specific examples of treatment and prevention programs that have been designed to help resolve family
and individual problems.

3.​

Articulate how diversity among individuals, families, and communities may affect the delivery of human
services.

4.​

Describe how personal, ethical (related to the NOHS/CSHSE Ethical Standards), and legal issues affect the
delivery of human services.

5.​

Locate and interpret sources appropriate to public policy, trends, and issues that affect individuals and families.

6.​

Specify how his/her personal values and goals relate to a career in human services.

7.​

Identify and apply principles of assessment, planning, brokering, and case management.

8.​

Compare and contrast major models of causation for psychopathology and major theoretical approaches for
helping people in need.

9.​

Assess the needs of a specific community or population.

To determine if this course fulfills additional program or track outcomes, please see the department chair or program
coordinator.

GRADING STANDARDS
Grading Scale:
A

93-100

4.0

A-

90-92

3.7

B+

87-89

3.3

B

83-86

3.0

B-

80-82

2.7

C+

77-79

2.3

C

70-76

2.0

D

60-69

1.0

F

1-59

0.0

Passing standards are dependent on the catalog year in which you entered the University. For further information,
please look under “Academic Standing and Grading Information” in the “Academic Information” section of the
relevant catalog at http://www.stevenson.edu/academics/catalog/ .
Course Requirements:
1. Class Participation/Quiz Questions
2. Quizzes
3. Midterm​

​

4. Final Exam​ ​

​

5. Annotated Bibliography​
6. Team Research Project​
​​

​

​​

​

​

COURSE POLICIES
Policies:

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

Late Assignments/Presentations: All assignments and presentations are due at the date and time posted on
Blackboard and on this syllabus. Otherwise, grades will be lowered one letter grade for each 24 hours
(including weekends and holidays) the assignment is late.
Make-up Exams and Quizzes. Students are expected to take exams and quizzes at the scheduled time.
Make-up exams and quizzes are permitted with a documented and excused reason. Examples of documented
excuses include an illness with an accompanying note from doctor’s office. The window for taking the
make-up exam closes once the exam in returned in class.

Classroom and Studio Policies: It is expected that students will be fully attentive to the instructor
and to their peers during class time. As such, use of technology is allowed if it enhances the students
learning experience. Use of technology for purposes unrelated to class should be done before or after
class.
Submission of Assignments or Projects:
Written Assignments: All written assignments must be typewritten. Handwritten assignments will not be
accepted. Papers will be submitted via Blackboard unless otherwise noted. All assignments submitted via
Blackboard will be screened with SafeAssign, a software program that monitors for possible plagiarism.
Papers may NOT be put in the instructor’s mailbox.

Course-Specific Attendance
Attendance is required and expected. Students are responsible for the material presented in class
which includes lectures and guest speakers- material that will not be found in your readings. If a
student must miss class for an unavoidable reason, it is expected that the student will email the
instructor to notify of the absence and contact a classmate to get class notes. Best practice is to ask a
classmate to take notes prior to the missed class. Students should email the instructor with specific
questions after contacting classmates.
UNIVERSITY GUIDELINES
Diversity Statement
Stevenson University commits itself to diversity as it relates to awareness, education, respect, and practice at every level
of the organization. The University embraces people of all backgrounds, defined by, but not limited to, ethnicity, culture,
race, gender, class, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, physical ability, learning
styles, and political perspectives. The University believes its core values are strengthened when all of its members have
voice and representation. The resulting inclusive organizational climate promotes the development of broad-minded
members of the University who positively influence their local and global communities.
Standards of Academic Integrity
Stevenson University expects all members of its community to behave with integrity. Honesty and integrity provide the
clearest path to knowledge, understanding, and truth – the highest goals of an academic institution. For students, integrity
is fundamental to the development of intellect, character, and the personal and professional ethics that will govern their
lives and shape their careers. Stevenson University embraces and operates in a manner consistent with the definitions and
principles of Academic Integrity as set forth by the International Center for Academic Integrity.
Students are expected to model the values of academic integrity (honesty, trust, fairness, respect, responsibility, and
courage) in all aspects of this course.
Students will be asked to assent to and to uphold the University Honor Pledge:

“I pledge on my honor that I have neither given nor received
unauthorized assistance on this assignment/exam.”
Suspected violations of the Academic Integrity Policy will be reported and investigated as outlined in the Policy
Manual, Volume V.

ACADEMIC SERVICES AND RESOURCES
Disability Services ​
Stevenson University will make reasonable accommodations for students with documented disabilities. The
Office of Disability Services (ODS) facilitates equal access for every student who self-identifies as having a
disability. If you are a student with a disability who needs accommodations in this class, please contact the
Director of Disability Services located in Garrison Hall South Room 138 or send an email to
ODS@stevenson.edu. Once accommodations are authorized by ODS, please provide me (your instructor) with
your approved accommodations memo as soon as possible. Accommodations are not retroactive.
This is the link to the University’s Office of Disability Services:
http://www.stevenson.edu/academics/academic-resources/disability-support-services/
Academic Link​
The John L. Stasiak Academic Link, located on Owings Mills in the Center for Student Success (GHS 101),
provides free tutoring for many classes. If you are having difficulty with or would benefit from discussing the material
with an upper level peer, seek assistance early in the semester. Tutoring often makes a difference in a student’s grade.
To view the tutoring schedule and sign up for an appointment, go to stevenson.go-redrock.com, visit the Link in
person, or call 443-394-9300.
SU Library
The SU Library provides extensive electronic and print resources to support your coursework. Research Guides and
databases can be found on the library home page, as well as brief tutorials to assist you in using these resources. A
professional librarian is always available to help you find the best information sources for your needs. For more
information about library services, please visit: http://stevenson.libguides.com/stevensonlibrary
Online Learning Resources
Atomic Learning (Hoonuit), available through Blackboard, is an online learning resource available to all Stevenson
students that provides video tutorials for instruction on a wide variety of topics.
The Wellness Center
Stress is a normal part of being a student. However, if personal, emotional, or physical concerns are interfering with
your ability to be successful at Stevenson, please call the Wellness Center at 443-352-4200 to make an appointment.
More information about the Wellness Center can be found at: http://www.stevenson.edu/student-life/health-wellness/

STEVENSON EDUCATION EXPERIENCE (SEE) LEARNING GOALS AND OUTCOMES
SU Goal No. 1: Intellectual Development (ID)
The SU graduate will use inquiry and analysis, critical and creative thinking, scientific reasoning, and quantitative skills to gather and
evaluate evidence, to define and solve problems facing his or her communities, the nation, and the world, and to demonstrate an
appreciation for the nature and value of the fine arts.
​
SU Goal No. 2: Communication (C)

The SU graduate will communicate logically, clearly, and precisely using written, oral, non-verbal, and electronic means to acquire,
organize, present, and/or document ideas and information, reflecting an awareness of situation, audience, purpose, and diverse points
of view.
SU Goal No. 3: Self, Societies, and the Natural World (SSNW)
The SU graduate will consider self, others, diverse societies and cultures, and the physical and natural worlds, while engaging with world
problems, both contemporary and enduring.
SU Goal No. 4: Experiential Learning (EL)
The SU graduate will connect ideas and experiences from a variety of contexts, synthesizing and transferring learning to new, complex
situations.
SU Goal No. 5: Career Readiness (CR)
The SU graduate will demonstrate personal direction, professional know-how, and discipline expertise in preparation for entry into the
workplace or graduate studies.
SU Goal No. 6: Ethics in Practice (EIP)
The SU graduate will practice integrity in the academic enterprise, professional settings, and personal relationships.

For more information about the SU learning outcomes and goals, please see the Stevenson catalog.

COURSE SCHEDULE INFORMATION
Graded Assignments:
1. Class Participation/Quiz Questions (10%)
Advance preparation is mandatory, as students will be expected to synthesize, analyze, and evaluate the readings
in terms of academic knowledge as well as personal and professional experience. Grading will take into
consideration punctuality, consistency, completion of in-class and outside-class assignments, expressive
participation, and receptive participation.
Quiz Questions: As part of your class participation grade, you will submit two quiz questions via
blackboard every Wednesday before class. Questions should be in multiple choice format.
2. Quizzes (15%)
Several short quizzes will be completed throughout the semester. The quizzes will be announced and will cover
information from the readings as well as information presented in class.
3. Midterm (15%) ​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

The midterm will consist of multiple choice, true-false, and short essay questions. Like the quizzes, it will
cover information from the text as well as information presented in class.​​
​
​
4. Final Exam (15%) ​ ​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

​

The format for the final will be similar to that of the midterm.
5. Annotated Bibliography (15%)​

​

​

​

​

You will select, read and write a summary and review of two literature resources on a selected special
population.
6. Team Research Project​
As part of a small team of classmates, you will be responsible for researching the needs of a special population group
presenting your findings to the class. In addition to the class presentation, you will also submit an individual written
report on your group.

Community Needs Assessment Presentation(15%)
Individual Reflection Paper (15%)

Final exam date, time, and location: Thursday, Dec 13 8 - 10 AM
Course Calendar:

WEEKLY CLASS SCHEDULE – FALL 18
Week 1
Aug 28
&30
Week 2
Sept 4 & 6

Topics Covered
COURSE OVERVIEW,
FOUNDATIONAL
CONCEPTS
THE HISTORY OF
HELPING and
MODERN DAY
HUMAN SERVICES

Required Readings
Piliavin, 2009 Altruism and
Helping.pdf

Due

DiGiovanni-CSHSE_Legacy.pdf
(pp 9-14);
Kincaid, 2009 -four essential
components of CHS.pdf

ROLES AND
FUNCTIONS OF
HUMAN SERVICE
WORKERS
Week 3
9/11, 9/13
Week 4
9/18, 9/20

MACRO-LEVEL
PRACTICE
ASSESSING THE
NEEDS OF THE
COMMUNITY

Week 5
9/25, 9/27

WORKING WITH
INDIVIDUVAL AND
FAMILIES:
THEORETICAL
PERSPECTIVES​

Week 6
10/2, 10/4

WORKING WITH
INDIVIDUVAL AND
FAMILIES:
THEORETICAL
PERSPECTIVES
FALL BREAK

10/9

The Community Tool Box
(weblinks on BB)
The Community Tool Box and
Conducting a Needs Assessment
Meet in library computer lab
Mehr, Chapter 6 (pp 102-110
only)
Mehr Chapter 8

Mehr, Chapter 7 (March 1)
10/4- Review and “catch-up” day
NO CLASS

SEPT 11- Quiz
1

SEPT 27Community
Needs
Assessment
Action Plan –
Questions due
OCT 2- Quiz 2
OCT 4Annotated
Bibliography

Week 7
10/11
Week 8
10/16,
10/18
Week 9
10/23,
10/25
Week 10
10/30, 11/1
Week 11
11/6, 11/8
Week 12
NOV 13 &
15

Mid Term EXAM
THE SKILLS OF
HELPINGCASEMANAGMENT
AND SOFT SKILLS

Bogo (2006) pp. 123-130 and
137-140
Burnard (1999) pp. 48-54

ISSUE-SPECIFIC
SOCIAL POLICY

Reading TBD

ISSUE SPECIFIC
SOCIAL POLICY

Reading TBD

TRAUMA INFORMED
CARE AND CRISIS
INTERVENTION
Individual and Group
Research

Week 13
NOV 20

GROUP
PRESENTATIONS

Week 14
11/27 & 29

NO CLASS NOV 22ENJOY
THANKSGIVING
GROUP
PRESENTATIONS

Week 15
12/4, 12/6

MULTICULTURAL
AND ETHICAL
ISSUES IN HUMAN
SERVICES

Mid Term
Exam
OCT 18- Team
Role
Preference
Scale

OCT 30- Quiz
3

Miller Najavits 2012- Trauma
informed care in correctional
facilities.pdf

PRESENTATIONS

PRESENTATIONS

NOV 15Individual
Reflection
Papers
NOV 20- Quiz
4

Group
Presentations
Revised
&Community
Action Plan

NOHS Code of Ethics

STRESS
MANAGEMENT
Week 16
12/13

FINAL REVIEW
FINAL EXAM
8-10 AM

This is subject to change based on University-Wide
exam Schedule.

**Quiz Questions are due every Thursday before class unless otherwise noted.
Table of Contents
Syllabi

STEVENSON
U N I V E R S I T Y
COUNSELING & HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT
CHS 201 - HUMAN SERVICES and Social Policy
Team Research Project
Community Needs Assessment

PREPARATION
●​ Choose a special population group with a potential human services need. Examples include but are
not limited to: College students and involvement in healthy activities, the elderly and keeping active
socially, abused or neglected children, college students and substance abuse, the chronically
homeless, the social needs of disabled youth or reintegration of incarcerated. Your group has some
flexibility with choosing the topic. Get approval from your instructor on your special population
before you begin.
●​ Individually, begin your research by completing the Annotated Bibliography assignment. This will
provide you with some background information as you and your team move forward with your
Community Needs Assessment.
CONDUCTING THE NEEDS ASSESSMENT
1. Create a Needs Assessment Action Plan:
●​ Formulate Needs Assessment Questions. What do you want to learn about this special
population? Meet with your group to develop questions that will guide your inquiry into the
needs of this community of people. If you were going to create a program or advocate for
changes in public policy for this special population, what information would you first need to
know about this special population?
●​ Review existing data. What do you already know about the community? Possible sources
include your annotated bibliography and previous field experiences. This is an opportunity
for team members to share the information with each other.
●​ Determine what information you still need to know and how you will gather that information.
You will complete the Community Needs Assessment Action Plan with your group.
2. Collect new data. Each team member is responsible for a conducting field work activity. The field work
should be part of the Community Needs Assessment Action Plan. Examples of field work can include an
additional field experience with targeted questions or phone interviews of several service providers, a
survey or interview of community members or other stakeholders. Create the data collection instrument
(the survey or interview questions) and collect the data.
.
3. Analyze your Data. Meet with your team to formulate ideas about the key findings you have learned
about your community. Be sure to identify your source through in-text citations.
4. Report Your Findings. Each team will be allotted 20-30 minutes to present their findings to the class.
These findings should provide an in-depth discussion of the needs, strengths and resources of this special
population. In addition to the findings, this presentation should include an overview of your Community
Needs Assessment Action Plan and your data collection methods.
GROUP DELIVERABLES

1.​ Community Needs Assessment Action Plan
2.​ Class presentation
INDIVIDUAL DELIVERALBLES
1.​ Field Work
2.​ Reflection Paper
INDIVIDUAL REFLECTION PAPER
You will write a 2-3 page paper (double spaced) reflecting on your work in the community needs
assessment. This paper should include the following:
1.​ Field Work. Describe your field work. Describe the results of your field work. How did your field
work contribute to the overall community needs assessment? Include a copy of the data collection
tool you created.
2.​ Discuss the strengths and weaknesses of you community needs assessment. If time and resources
was no barrier, how would you improve the community needs assessment?
3.​ The group process. Working in a group can be very rewarding and highly productive. Group work
is not just about lightening the load by dividing up responsibilities; when done well the
collaborative process can be much more than the sum of its parts. At the same time, when groups
do not function well, the group process can be very challenging. Reflect on how well your team
functioned. Provide examples. What was your role in the group process- i.e., what did you do to
add to help the team function collaboratively? What conflicts did your group have and how did
you work through these problems?
GRADING
Team Presentation (50%)
●​
●​
●​
●​
●​

Evaluation of team participation
Understanding of concepts
Presentation of findings
Needs Assessment Action Plan
Presentation Style (engaging and organized)
Individual Reflection Paper (50%)
●​ Thoroughness, accuracy
●​ Thought and reasoning
●​ Writing mechanics (grammar, punctuation, spelling, etc.)

Table of Contents
Syllabi

​

CHS 220 Diversity and Cultural Competence in Human Services
Spring 2019

INSTRUCTOR INFORMATION
Lauri Weiner, J.D., HS-BCP.
Stevenson telephone number: 443-394-9641
Stevenson email: lweiner@stevenson.edu
Best times for phone contact: During office hours
Office location: MAC N177
Office hours: M 3:30-4:30, T, H 2:00 -3:00 and by appointment
COURSE INFORMATION
CHS 220
Section number: 01
Credits: 3.
Prerequisite(s): CHS 101 Family Studies
Classroom or Studio Location: MAC S227 on the Owings Mills North Campus
Scheduled Class Days and Time: TTH 11-12:15
Course Description Explores commonalities and differences in contemporary families and

individuals. The course examines the culturally competent provision of human services when
working with individuals of similar and different races, ethnicities, socio-economic statuses,
religions, sexual orientations, and abilities.
Instructional Methods Used in this Course: Course objectives will be achieved by a variety of methods which

include lecture, class discussions, team projects, papers, videos, and fieldwork
Required and Recommended Texts, Manuals, and Supplies: Lum, D. (Ed). (2011). Culturally

competent, practice: A framework for understanding diverse groups and justice issues. Belmont:
Brooks/Cole.
COURSE OUTCOMES
Course Objectives/Learning Outcomes: All syllabi must include the approved course learning outcomes. See
department for the approved learning outcomes.

1. ​
2.​

Identify one’s own ethnic heritage, history or cultural background, values and
assumptions and how this can affect one’s experience as a practitioner.​
Articulate the impact of history and culture on various ethnic minority groups in the
United States.

3.​
4.​
5.​

Identify demographic trends in the United States and how they will impact on the need to
be culturally competent.
Describe how one’s culture, race and ethnicity influence seeking help, describing issues
and interactions with others.
Demonstrate a knowledge of diversity as it relates to other aspects of family including but
not limited to religion, sexual orientation, disabilities, age and family structure.

GRADING STANDARDS
Grading Scale:
A

93-100

4.0

A-

90-92

3.7

B+

87-89

3.3

B

83-86

3.0

B-

80-82

2.7

C+

77-79

2.3

C

70-76

2.0

D

60-69

1.0

F

1-59

0.0

Students must earn a minimum grade of “C” in courses that are used to fulfill the SEE requirement and major
requirements.
Grading Standard: Grades are determined based on total number of points, not percentages so there is
no rounding up. All assignment grades are posted in Blackboard. Participation grades are determined at
the end of the semester including feedback obtained through student completion of a participation rubric.
Group presentations are evaluated by classmates, as well as the instructor. Extra credit points earned are
added in at the end of the semester and are not posted in Blackboard.
Course Requirements:

1. Class Participation/Periodic Assignments (10%)
Advance preparation is mandatory, as students will be expected to synthesize, analyze, and evaluate the
readings in terms of academic knowledge as well as personal and professional experience. Grading will
take into consideration punctuality, consistency, expressive participation, and receptive participation.
Current Events
Each student will deliver a short oral summary of a recent (within the past year) news item pertaining to
the topics covered in this course and pose 2 open-ended questions to the class for discussion. Coverage
should be succinct but thorough.
2. Class Debates (10%)
Each student will be assigned to one of three groups. The groups’ role will rotate during the semester.
Each group will have the opportunity of presenting support for or against a particular topic being
considered. The third group during each of these debates will listen to both sides and determine which
side presented the most convincing evidence.
3. Response Papers (15%)
Students will write 3 short (2-3 pages) response papers on topics assigned by the instructor. Papers can
be opinion-based but must provide documentation supporting student’s opinion.

4. Cultural Autobiography (20%)

Each student will write her/his own cultural autobiography to become more aware of one’s own
background as well as how it impacts on relationships with others. More details will be provided.

5. Immigrant Interview (20%)
Each student will interview someone who is an immigrant or whose parent/parents have
immigrated to the U.S. and learn about that person’s experiences and how it affected the family.
Examples of questions will be given to students ahead of time.
6. Group Presentation and Report (25%)
Each student will choose a nation to study in-depth. Students will examine how people from that
nation or similar nations are presented in the media including news, television and movies.
Students will prepare a list of services available for that group to be given out during the
presentation. One copy of the team presentation will be provided to the instructor, and
individually written reports will be submitted.
7. Optional Outside Assignment
A student may elect to complete a variety of optional assignments. You may visit an approved museum or
attend an approved relevant event. A description of your experience must be turned in by the end of
April.

​​

COURSE POLICIES
COURSE GROUND RULES: Students will be exposed to different realities, opinions and
perspectives with which you may be uncomfortable or disagree. The class readings, assignments
and discussions will require you to think critically about various aspects of diversity and may
challenge some of your values and beliefs. It is important to treat each other with respect, to
listen to other points of view, and to question others in an appropriate manner. Information
shared in class is confidential.
WRITTEN ASSIGNMENTS
All written assignments must be typewritten. Handwritten assignments will not be accepted
unless prior approval has been provided by the instructor. All written assignments will be
submitted in the Blackboard site.
LATE ASSIGNMENTS OR PRESENTATIONS
Students will not receive credit for assignments submitted late or missed exams without prior
approval of the instructor. Student must provide a documented valid excuse explaining why they
could not complete the assignment. Examples of documented valid excuses that will be
considered are those involving illness, family emergencies, and catastrophic incidents, all of
which can be verified through documentation and directly affect the involved student. If you
miss an assignment without an acceptable documented valid excuse, you will earn a grade
of Zero.
Grades will be lowered 10% for each 24 hours (including weekends and holidays) the
assignment is late.

Submission of Assignments or Projects: All written assignments must be submitted in Times New Roman, font size
12 and double-spaced. All assignments should be uploaded in Blackboard unless other instructions are provided.
Classroom Policies: Cell phone usage is not permitted during class without prior approval of the instructor. Laptops
are permitted so long as they do not interfere with the learning of other students and are on topic. Laptops may not be
used whenever videos/movies are shown in class.
Attendance
Each student is responsible for his or her own class attendance and regular attendance is expected. Every student is
responsible for the material covered during scheduled classes. Grades will be based on demonstrated achievement of the
objectives of the course, not on attendance in class as such. Students who stop attending and fail to officially withdraw
from a class will be given a grade of "FX" which calculates as an "F" in the GPA.
Course-Specific Attendance

Participation
Students are expected to participate in all classes and to arrive promptly. Whenever a student is absent, it is
the student’s responsibility to obtain lecture notes and handouts for that class session. While a student is not
required to attend all classes, a student cannot actively participate unless s/he is present for most classes
UNIVERSITY GUIDELINES
Diversity Statement
Stevenson University commits itself to diversity as it relates to awareness, education, respect, and practice at every level
of the organization. The University embraces people of all backgrounds, defined by, but not limited to, ethnicity, culture,
race, gender, class, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, physical ability, learning
styles, and political perspectives. The University believes its core values are strengthened when all of its members have
voice and representation. The resulting inclusive organizational climate promotes the development of broad-minded
members of the University who positively influence their local and global communities.
Standards of Academic Integrity
Stevenson University expects all members of its community to behave with integrity. Honesty and integrity provide the
clearest path to knowledge, understanding, and truth – the highest goals of an academic institution. For students, integrity
is fundamental to the development of intellect, character, and the personal and professional ethics that will govern their
lives and shape their careers. Stevenson University embraces and operates in a manner consistent with the definitions and
principles of Academic Integrity as set forth by the International Center for Academic Integrity.
Students are expected to model the values of academic integrity (honesty, trust, fairness, respect, responsibility, and
courage) in all aspects of this course.
Students will be asked to assent to and to uphold the University Honor Pledge:
“I pledge on my honor that I have neither given nor received
unauthorized assistance on this assignment/exam.”
Suspected violations of the Academic Integrity Policy will be reported and investigated as outlined in the Policy
Manual, Volume V.

ACADEMIC SERVICES

Disability Services ​
Stevenson University will make reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities. The Office of
Disability Services (ODS) facilitates equal access for every student who self-identifies as having a disability. If
you are a student with a disability who needs accommodations in this class, please contact the Director of
Disability Services located in Garrison Hall South Room 138 or send an email to ODS@stevenson.edu. Once
accommodations are authorized by ODS, please provide me (your instructor) with your approved
accommodations memo as soon as possible. Accommodations are not retroactive.
This is the link to the University’s Office of Disability Services:
http://www.stevenson.edu/academics/academic-resources/disability-support-services/
Academic Link​
The John L. Stasiak Academic Link, located on Owings Mills in the Center for Student Success (GHS 101),
provides free tutoring for many classes. If you are having difficulty with or would benefit from discussing the material
with an upper level peer, seek assistance early in the semester. Tutoring often makes a difference in a student’s grade.
To view the tutoring schedule and sign up for an appointment, go to stevenson.go-redrock.com, visit the Link in
person, or call 443-394-9300.
SU Library
The SU Library provides extensive electronic and print resources to support your coursework. Research Guides and
databases can be found on the library home page, as well as brief tutorials to assist you in using these resources. A
professional librarian is always available to help you find the best information sources for your needs. For more
information about library services, please visit: http://stevenson.libguides.com/stevensonlibrary
Online Learning Resources
Atomic Learning (Hoonuit), available through Blackboard, is an online learning resource available to all Stevenson
students that provides video tutorials for instruction on a wide variety of topics.

STEVENSON EDUCATION EXPERIENCE (SEE) LEARNING GOALS AND OUTCOMES
SU Goal No. 1: Intellectual Development (ID)
The SU graduate will use inquiry and analysis, critical and creative thinking, scientific reasoning, and quantitative skills to gather and
evaluate evidence, to define and solve problems facing his or her communities, the nation, and the world, and to demonstrate an
appreciation for the nature and value of the fine arts.
​
SU Goal No. 2: Communication (C)
The SU graduate will communicate logically, clearly, and precisely using written, oral, non-verbal, and electronic means to acquire,
organize, present, and/or document ideas and information, reflecting an awareness of situation, audience, purpose, and diverse points
of view.
SU Goal No. 3: Self, Societies, and the Natural World (SSNW)
The SU graduate will consider self, others, diverse societies and cultures, and the physical and natural worlds, while engaging with world
problems, both contemporary and enduring.
SU Goal No. 4: Experiential Learning (EL)
The SU graduate will connect ideas and experiences from a variety of contexts, synthesizing and transferring learning to new, complex
situations.
SU Goal No. 5: Career Readiness (CR)
The SU graduate will demonstrate personal direction, professional know-how, and discipline expertise in preparation for entry into the
workplace or graduate studies.
SU Goal No. 6: Ethics in Practice (EIP)
The SU graduate will practice integrity in the academic enterprise, professional settings, and personal relationships.

For more information about the SU learning outcomes and goals, please see the Stevenson catalog.

COURSE SCHEDULE INFORMATION
CHS 220 –Diversity and Cultural Competence in Human Services
COURSE SCHEDULE (Subject to change)
1-29​
1-31​ ​
​
​

​ OVERVIEW​
CULTURALLY COMPETENT PRACTICE
READING: Lum, Chapter 1

2-5,7​ ​

MOVIE
DUE 2-7: Response Paper 1

2-12,14,19​
​
​
​
​

SOCIAL CONTEXT
READING: Lum, Chapter 2, 9
2-14 Debate 1

2-21, 26​

HUMAN RIGHTS AND SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTICE
READING: Lum, Chapter 3

2-28​ ​
​
​

CULTURAL AWARENESS
READING: Lum, Chapter 5
DUE 2-28: Cultural Autobiography

3-5, 7​ ​

FIRST NATIONS
READING: Lum, Chapter 8
DUE 3-7: Response Paper 2

3-12, 14​
​
​
​
​
3-26, 28​
​
​
​
​
​
​

AFRICANS
READING: Lum, Chapter 10
LATINOS
READING: Lum, Chapter 11
Debate 2: 3/28
4-2, 4​ ​
READING: Lum, Chapter 12
DUE 4-4: Immigrant Interview

4-9, 11​​

ARABS and MUSLIMS
READING: Lum, Chapter 13

ASIANS

4-16​ ​

RELIGION
READING: On Reserve​

​
4-18, 23, 25​ IMMIGRANTS AND REFUGEES
READING: Lum, Chapter 9, On Reserve
4-18 Debate 3
4-30​ ​
​

​

5-2​

​

LGBTQ
READING: Lum, Chapter 15
DUE 4-30: Response Paper 3
​
​
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
READING: Lum, Chapter 16

5/7​ ​
Meet with Groups
​
​
​
​
​
​
GROUP PROJECTS
5-9, 14​ at 10:45 am DUE 5-9: Written Culture Report
Graded Assignments: See previous descriptions and due dates listed in course calendar
Final exam date, time, and location: 5/14 8-10:45 am will finish Group Presentations in MAC S227

Table of Contents
Syllabi

CHS 220
Group Presentation and Research Paper
Each student will choose a nation to study in-depth. In studying the particular nation, students should:
1.​ Describe the ethnic and religious groupings within the nation including which groups are the
majority and how other groups are treated.
2.​ Examine the family structure both in terms of what is the norm as well as what is acceptable.
3.​ Address the role of both the elderly and children and describe how they are treated.
4.​ Discuss gender roles both the norms and what is acceptable.
5.​ Explain the cultural values of your nation.
6.​ Describe how the LGTBQ population is viewed.
7.​ Address how physical and mental illnesses are treated.
8.​ Explain how the political system is structured and what its impact may be on family life or how it
may influence people immigrating to the United States.
9.​ Describe its location and what someone should know about it geographically.
10.​ Discuss important events in the history of the nation and their impact on people today.
11.​ Address economic or occupational factors that might be important to know about this nation.
12.​ Provide information about significant holidays both religious and secular and explain any which
are not part of the dominant American culture.
13.​ Describe immigration patterns to the United States over the last 5 years.

Based on what you have learned from doing the research, explain what you think the strengths of
these people are and what challenges they may face. What should someone know in order to be
culturally competent working with this population?
CLASS PRESENTATION (Team Work) (125 points)​
All students who selected a related nation will conduct a seminar presentation for the entire class.
Presentations should be 30 minutes. Some class time will be given to help the teams prepare for their
presentations, if possible, but time outside of class will also be necessary. A copy of the presentation must
be turned in at the beginning of the class. Students will prepare a list of services that are available to
members of the broader group, which that nation represents and hand out during the presentation.
RESEARCH PAPER (Individual Work) (125 points)​
Papers should address the information in the first section of the instructions as well as any other
information you think is relevant. You must use a minimum of 4 credible sources and APA format
including a reference page at the end and citations within the body of the paper. The paper should be
double-spaced and in a 12 point font. Minimum paper length is 5 pages.
GRADING​
The paper and presentation comprise 25% of each student’s final grade.

The Honor Code must be included at the end of the paper.
Papers should address the information in the first section of the instructions as well as any other
information you think is relevant. You must use a minimum of 4 credible sources and APA format
including a reference page at the end and citations within the body of the paper. The paper should be
double-spaced and in a readable font.
GRADING​
The paper and presentations comprise 25% of each student’s final grade. The criteria that will be used in
determining grades are the following:​
Research Paper
●​ Thoroughness
●​ Accuracy
●​ Mechanics of writing (grammar, punctuation, spelling, etc.)​
Team Presentation
●​ Description and explanation
●​ Organization
●​ Ability to engage audience
●​ Team participation
●​ Creativity

Table of Contents
Syllabi

Sample Country Report

South Korea, also named Republic of Korea, is located in East Asia on the Southern half of the
Korean Peninsula “jutting out from the far east of the Asian land mass into the Yellow Sea”(Geography of
South Korea). It’s northern boundary is marked by the Korean DMZ (Demilitarized Zone) which also
forms the Southern border of North Korea, also called the Democratic People Republic of Korea
(Geography of South Korea). South Korea is surrounded by three seas: The yellow sea to the West, the
East China Sea to the South, and the Sea of Japan to the East (Geography of South Korea). South Korea’s
capital city, Seoul (Geography of South Korea), was home to over 10 million people in 2018 (The
Statistic of Seoul, 2018), making up for 19% of South Korea’s total population of over 51 million people
(South Korea Population (LIVE)).

Image retrieved from: https://www.freeworldmaps.net/asia/southkorea/map.html

South Korea’s history officially begins after World War II, when Japanese occupation
ends with Soviet troops occupying the North, while U.S troops occupied the South in 1945, with
the formal establishment of South Korea in 1948 (South Korea: History). Each power, both
North and South Korea, accepted Japan’s surrender in order to bring stability to their nation

(History of South Korea). Japan’s surrender however, marked the beginning of Soviet and U.S
trusteeship over North and South Korea (History of South Korea). The United States troops
landed at Incheon in 1945 and established a military government shortly after (History of South
Korea). After WWII, chaos plagued the country, which emphasized the mark that Japanese
colonization left in both North and South Korea, as well as the unpreparedness of US’s military
government due to the drastic differences in culture (History of South Korea). The People’s
Republic of Korea (Korea as a whole country, before division) was short lived, but it was
developed after negotiation with Japanese invaders (History of South Korea). The People’s
Republic of Korea was deemed invalid by the United States in the South and in 1945, the US
returned the Provisional government the status of private citizens followed by the development
of the Korean Advisory Council (History of South Korea).

U.S Military in South Korea; 1945. Retrieved from:
http://www.tanks-encyclopedia.com/coldwar/South_Korea/South_Korean_Tanks.php

During the first republic, after the establishment of South Korea, popular elections
elected Syngman Rhee as the first president; this was followed by the Soviet Union establishing
North Korea, or the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea under Kim II-Sung (History of

South Korea). Throughout the year, the new government continued to develop itself, and the
president was to be elected by a National Assembly (History of South Korea). In late 1948, the
United Nations only recognized the republic of Korea as the sole legal government of Korea
(History of South Korea). Land was also redistributed by the U.S and South Korea that was
originally held by the Japanese colonial government, companies, and colonists; even Koreans
with large amounts of land were told to give up most of their land which resulted in a new class
of family proprietors (History of South Korea). Although Rhee was accepted, his cabinet was
not, and a party was created in hopes of removing this cabinet, which led to a regrouping of
Rhee’s faction into the soon to be known Liberal Party (History of South Korea). Rhee’s goal
was to align South Korea’s government closely to the United States’ government, which meant
he was against both North Korea and Japan. Relations with Japan or North Korea achieved little
progress, which resulted in Korean forces invading South Korea in 1950 (named the Korean
War) and was ended by the Korean Armistice Agreement in 1953 (History of South Korea).
After the agreement, there was political turmoil under the leadership of Rhee which eventually
caused a revolt due to his want of cementing control over the government and need for more
power (History of South Korea). The non-violent protests throughout the country against Rhee’s
leadership, eventually led to his resignation in 1960 (History of South Korea).

Douglass MacArthur & Syngman Rhee in the Ceremony inaugurating the South Korean Government; Retrieved from:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syngman_Rhee

During the second republic, It was the first and only time that South Korea utilized a
cabinet system instead of a presidential system (History of South Korea). In 1960, Yun Posun
won election and Chang Myon became the prime minister and head of government (History of
South Korea). The second republic mainly revolved around the growth of student unions, as
union activity grew rapidly (History of South Korea). Chang carried out purges of military and
police officials who were involved in anti-democratic activities or any sort of corruption, which
resulted in more than 2,200 government officials and 4,000 police officers being killed (History
of South Korea). During this time, the government also considered reducing the size of the
military substantially, and the economic status of the country was not in such a great shape, so a
5-year plan was developed in hopes of stabilizing the economy (History of South Korea).

Yun Posun; Retrieved from: https://www.ed.ac.uk/alumni/services/notable-alumni/alumni-in-history/yun-posun

During the third republic, Park Chung Hee (Major general of the military in South Korea
during the second republic) ran again and won 51.4% votes, and he eventually won the 1971
election (History of South Korea). During the third republic, South Korea began taking a role in
international relations and their relations with Japan slowly stabilized, with an agreement ratified
in 1965 (History of South Korea). The nation continued its ties with the United States, as it
continued to take U.S aid. Korea joined the Vietnam war, sending 300,000 soldiers to fight
alongside the United States and South Vietnamese troops (History of South Korea). Their
economy grew rapidly, as they used aid from both Japan and the United States to expert
businesses (History of South Korea). In 1971, Park declared a national emergency and in 1972,
he dissolved the National Assemble and announced plans to “eliminate the popular election of
the president” (History of South Korea).

Park Chung-Hee; Retrieved from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Chung-hee

During the fourth republic, Park developed a new constitution which gave him control over
parliament (History of South Korea). This journey towards power eventually led to his
assassination in 1979 and marked the beginning of the fifth republic (History of South Korea).
After his assassination, protests mostly composed of university students and labor unions against
authoritarian rule, reached an all time high, and a confrontation between these students, union
members, and armed forces took place in the city of Gwangju (History of South Korea). This
confrontation turned into a riot that lasted 9 days (History of South Korea). Many union
members and college students were killed during this riot, which outraged the public and
consolidated the support of democracy which paved way to the first democratic elections in 1987
(History of South Korea).

Gwangju Uprising; Retrieved from:
https://www.theaustralian.com.au/arts/review/south-koreas-gwangju-massacre-sets-scene-for-han-kang-novel/news-story/cc0917f
e75d397e0780a461fa4fe7d00

Ever since 1987, South Korea has been a democratic community, and managed to create
one of the most vibrant “democratic communities in the world” (Government of South Korea).
Its government now divides into three branches: the executive, judicial, and legislative branches,
even though some ministries in the executive branch also carry out local functions (Government

of South Korea). Local governments also contain executive and legislative bodies of their own
(Government of South Korea). The president heads the executive branch and the constitution
permits the president to serve a 5-year term (Government of South Korea). The president’s
serves as the head of the government, the head of the state, and the commander in chief who has
the power to declare war as well as declare a state of national emergency (Government of South
Korea). The National Assembly has the authority to impeach the president under suspicions of
wrong doing by both the president or by cabinet-level officials (Government of South Korea).
The prime minister acts as a vice-president would in the United States (Government of South
Korea). If the president becomes incapacitated, then the prime minister takes control of the state
(Government of South Korea).

Coat of Arms of Republic of Korea; Retrieved from: https://globaledge.msu.edu/countries/south-korea/government

Despite South Korea being a relatively new nation, its economy has been able to grow
exponentially. Since the 1950s, South Korea’s GDP (gross domestic product) has continuously
increased and it has not had a substantial amount of decrease; how is this possible? After the war,
South Korea was very poor (Mincheva, 2017). The first attempt at economic growth was the
“idea that import substitution would lead to self-sufficiency of the economy” (Mincheva, 2017).

The government increased tariffs on imports substantially and importers received special permits
to import certain products (Mincheva, 2017). This policy allowed businessmen to get rich,
however it failed due to the average growth rate still being very low (Mincheva, 2017). Until the
1960, more than 2/3rds of South Korea’s annual income was financed by the United States, and
for a while South Korea depended on the aid that the United States was supplying (Mincheva,
2017). During the second period, Chung Hee introduced economic intervention (Mincheva,
2017), and the country’s economic takeoff was mostly due to rapid industrialization under the
direction of the military government (Seth, 2017). During this time, South Korea’s economy
grew rapidly (Seth, 2017). Today, South Korea’s economy is the fourth largest economy in Asia,
making it also the 11th largest one in the world, often famous for its exponential rise out of
nothing (Economy and Business Opportunities from South Korea). It is a mixed economy, with
its domination revolving around family owned businesses (Economy and Business Opportunities
from South Korea).

From 1910-2010, South Korea’s Economic Growth; Retrieved from:
http://e-pao.net/epSubPageExtractor.asp?src=education.Jobs_Career.Learn_from_South_Korea_not_just_the_hairstyle_and_fashi
ons_but_a_lots_more_By_Boris_Leishangthem

​

More than 50% of South Korea’s population confess to belong in some sort of religious

affiliation (Religion in Korea). The country is one of the few countries in which all popular
religions coexist in peace, as its affiliations spread among Buddhism, Christianity, Confucianism,
Shamanism and Islam (Religion in Korea). Some citizens even follow a religion, but also utilize
traditions of another religion; for example, there is a substantial number of citizens who
categorize themselves as Christians, but often follow traditions and practices belonging to
Confucianism (Religion in Korea). Even new religions have emerged within the South Korean
community, such as Cheondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way), which inspired and had a
leading role in the Independence movement against Japanese colonizers (Religion in Korea).
This religion combines elements of Confucianism, Buddhism, Taoism, Shamanism, and Roman

Catholicism (Britannica, 1998) and the religion and its customs, focus on leading people into the
path of enlightenment (Cheondogyo).

Symbol of Cheondogyo; Retrieved from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheondoism

Because South Korea has a mixture of religions, there are many Public Holidays that
pertain to these different religions. They have many holidays known to the United States, such as
Christmas Day, but they also have Hangeul day, which marks the invention of the Korean
alphabet in 1446, or Chuseok which is a bit like Korean Thanksgiving day (South Korea Public
Holidays 2019). When it comes to traditions and customs, due to the country being home to
many religions, cultures often differ from household to household, and often are we able to see
the intertwine of the different cultures and how it works together in order to shape the everyday
life of a South Korea household (Byung-Sun Oh, 1997). In other words, South Korean supports
religious freedom, and this can be clearly seen in the diversity of the country as a whole
(Byung-Sun Oh, 1997).

Korean citizens visiting the King Sejong statue during Hangeul Day; Retrieved from:
https://asiasociety.org/blog/asia/happy-hangul-day

Although progression, industrialization and democratization has revolutionized a
woman’s role in South Korean society, traditional gender roles are highly favored (South Korea).
House work is regarded as woman’s work even when a woman has a profession outside of the
home (South Korea). Women in the workforce often also get paid less than men, and men
overrepresent the workforce as well as the population within their political system (South
Korea). The law also calls for equality of all citizens, regardless of gender; but that is not the
norm, and these norms (gender role ideologies) often complicate things in multiple ways (South
Korea). Women are allowed to do things such as run for presidency or for high power positions,
but because of the norm of them being submissive towards men in social settings, it makes it
quite difficult for women to actually run and succeed (South Korea); although in private, men
often leave decision making to their wives (South Korea). This norm however, does not mean
that women do not often fight to change it (South Korea). There are women’s movement whose
goals are to protect women’s rights as well as improve their status (South Korea). In response to
this activism, men organized the first National Men’s Association due to reverse sexism, and

they enacted to prevent violence and sexual harassment that favor women and fight to abolish
exclusively male duties such as military service (South Korea).

Women’s March in South Korea; Retrieved from:
https://studybreaks.com/news-politics/south-korea-women-march-for-justice/

When it comes to family structure, family background and educational level are
important considerations when in search of a partner (South Korea). This is where the old and
the new may collide, as some individuals have love marriages, but some may meet their spouse
through arranged meetings by parents, relatives, friends, or matchmakers (South Korea).
Marriage in itself is seen as a right of passage that comes with its own social status as well, and it
is seen as a union of their families as well in order to ensure the continuation of the husband’s
family line (South Korea). Remarriages are rare, and in some instances, in more traditional
locales, remarriages of widows are not allowed and remarriages after a divorce are difficult
(South Korea). The South Korean familial household mostly consists of two-generation
households, three-generation households are more traditional, but that in itself is fading and only
14.7% of the total population belonged to a three-generation household in 1995 (South Korea).
When it comes to inheritance, it was nationally known for the eldest son to receive a larger

portion of the parent’s inheritance because it is more common for the eldest son to be held
against higher standards and be given most of the responsibility (South Korea). In 1989 however,
after a revision of the Family Law, it re-stated that family inheritance must be divided “equally
among sons and daughters (South Korea).

South Korean Family Picture in traditional clothing; Retrieved from:
https://sites.google.com/site/skorealegrand/home/family-structure

Children are thought to be indebted to their parents and this debt lies in the idea of filial
duty (“Treating parents respectfully at all times, taking care of them in their old age, mourning
them at proper funerals, and performing ceremonies for them after their deaths”) (The Value and
Meaning of the Korean Family). The “children’s debt to their parents” goes further along,
entailing that maintaining the family line is a must as well (The Value and Meaning of the
Korean Family). Traditional South Korean families include children eventually leaving the home
but living close by (The Value and Meaning of the Korean Family). Young children are
“indulged” and are not disciplined until they are older (The Value and Meaning of the Korean
Family). Parents also began separating girls and boys and trained children to be respectful to
their elders, not being respectful to elders resulting in punishment (The Value and Meaning of the
Korean Family). Girls were seen as outsiders that will eventually leave the family and,

traditionally, many of them were not taught to read or to write (The Value and Meaning of the
Korean Family). She was taught that her place in the family was inferior to that of her male
siblings, and that of her father (The Value and Meaning of the Korean Family). In today’s South
Korean household however due to democracy and urbanization, both girls and boys are entitled
to an education and are both treated more equally in the household, although it is expected for
the girls to take on more household tasks and chores when they get older.

South Korean Children; Retrieved from:
https://nation.com.pk/31-Dec-2018/children-inheriting-more-from-parents-in-south-korea

Contrary to traditional norms, according to research, the elderly is not properly taken care
of in South Korea, and it is an ongoing problem (Smith, 2018). It is very common for the elderly
to not be taken care of by their children, as they are “too busy taking care of their own children”
(Smith, 2018). The elderly often say that they do not want to burden their children, and even go
as far as to say they do not want to be supported by their children (Smith, 2018). The elderly
often live in tiny rooms and they often admit to being uncomfortable with their situation but
claim that it is something they have to live with (Smith, 2018). Almost half of the elderly

population of South Korea live in poverty (Smith, 2018). This situation is mostly due to South
Korean’s ageing society “whose hard graft transformed South Korea into one of the strongest
economies, but who have not reaped the financial benefits in later life” (Smith, 2018). Elderly
who live alone often experience nursing problems, economic and psychological anxieties, and
loneliness (Smith, 2018). As a matter of fact, South Korea’s high suicide rate is largely due to the
high suicide rates in the elderly population specifically (Smith, 2018). Most of the elderly
population also cannot afford to retire, and often have to rely on jobs in order to not become
homeless, but it has also been proven rather difficult for the elderly to obtain jobs in the first
place, which result in many of them not being able to afford a place to live at all (Smith, 2018).

Madam Kim, 86-years old, works by collecting trash; Retrieved from:
https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asia/poor-and-on-their-own-south-korea-s-elderly-who-will--work-until-8577758

In regard to the LGBTQ+ community, South Korea, especially within the Christian population of
South Korea, is primarily conservative (Manzella, 2018). There have never been official laws
that prohibit sex marriage or homosexual sex, but being gay, lesbian, or transgender is still a
cultural taboo; most of the homosexual population in South Korea is still closeted (Manzella,
2018). Also, although there have not been laws specifically prohibiting same-sex marriage, this
type of marriage is not recognized by the government and the population does not have laws

against discrimination (Manzella, 2018). South Koreans who identify as LGBTQ+ are unable to
adopt children or serve in the military (Manzella, 2018). Through censorship, the government
has blocked same-sex dating apps and Korean Christian organizations often fuel campaigns that
spread the message of marriage strictly being between a man and a woman (Manzella, 2018).
Specifically with transgender individuals, only when they surgically change their sex can they
officially change their sex from a male to a female or a female to a male (Manzella, 2018).
Despite all of these bumps on the road for South Korea’s LGBTQ+ population, more than half of
South Korean’s overall population supports same-sex marriage (Manzella, 2018). Korea is home
to an annual pride event that occurs annually, as well as a Queer Culture Festival (although it had
to go to court due to police banning this event) (Manzella, 2018). The progress is slow, it is an
ongoing battle, but the LGBTQ+ community is is slowly but surely gaining momentum is South
Korea.

Retrieved from: http://www.newnownext.com/lgbt-in-south-korea/02/2018/

​

South Korea is strong in many ways; however, the mental health field is not one of its

strengths. In Korea, “there is no such thing as mental health” ('In Korea, there is no mental health':

Barriers to treatment, 2017). As previously stated, suicide rates in South Korea are relatively high,

second highest in the world, and this can be partly due to citizen’s hesitation in seeking help in
the first place ('In Korea, there is no mental health': Barriers to treatment, 2017). In fact, when one
expresses themselves as having a mental issue, they are seen as weak-minded ('In Korea, there is
no mental health': Barriers to treatment, 2017). In the Christian community, when one has a mental

health issue, it is often seen as someone having lack of faith in Christ ('In Korea, there is no mental
health': Barriers to treatment, 2017). Reasons for suicide can be anywhere from lack of conformity

in the young population, to poverty and loneliness in the elderly population ('In Korea, there is no
mental health': Barriers to treatment, 2017). Barriers of actual treatment are partly due to the cultural

norm of lack of trust in strangers, as well as family reputation ('In Korea, there is no mental health':
Barriers to treatment, 2017). A strange response to this suicide epidemic are “Death Experience”

schools, where suicidal teens are “taught to appreciate life again”, by showing them what it is
like to be dead (Mailonline, 2015).

Depressed individuals sit in coffins that are then sealed in order for them to lay in the dark for 10 minutes to reflect of their life;
retrieved from:

https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3284587/Learn-dead-day-Suicidal-people-locked-coffins-bizarre-death-experience-sch
ools-South-Korea-40-people-kill-day.html

It is typical of South Korean citizens to want to remain a purely Korean nation and due to
this, it has only been recently that South Korea has begun to test its waters on immigration by
hiring temporary foreign workers, as well as giving undocumented immigrants temporary
permits (Park, 2015). At the end of 2015, there were a total of 1.5 registered foreign nationals,
which is an incredible 235% increase over the less than 500,000 registered foreign individuals in
2003 (Park, 2015). Due to this process being relatively new, there is not much that can be said
over the matter except wait and see. Korean immigrants to the United States however, has seen a
dramatical increase since the 1960s, with just a tiny fraction being from North Korea (O’Connor
& Batalova, 2019). Contemporary Korean immigrants tend to be of high socioeconomic standing
compared to other immigrant groups that reside in the United States (O’Connor & Batalova,
2019). South Korean students have been “among the three largest groups of international
students enrolled in U.S higher education institutions” (O’Connor & Batalova, 2019). As of 2017
however, the Korean immigrant population has decreased by 37,000 since 2010 (O’Connor &
Batalova, 2019).

Korean Immigrants in the United States; Retrieved from:
https://www.migrationpolicy.org/article/korean-immigrants-united-states

The “strongest strength” that South Korea has by far, is perhaps the sole reason for its
other, overall strengths as well: their economy. Backtrack to 50 years ago, South Korea was
poorer than Bolivia and Zimbabwe. Fast-forward to today, and it is richer than New Zealand and
Spain (Noland, 2014). In 1996, the country joined the Organization of Economic Cooperation
and Development (a club of “rich industrialized countries”) (Noland, 2014). Their economy, for
the past 50 years, has increased at an average of 7% annually with the exception of just 3 years,
and according to Forbes, in 2004 South Korea surpassed One Trillion Dollars (Noland, 2014).
Their strong economy is the main reason of its technological advancements being a strength as
well. Its capital, Seoul, is ranked as the world’s leading digital city and tech capital of the world.
South Korea is also one of the leading global research nations in the world, especially in the
world of industrial research (Science & Technology in Korea). Due to their overall wealth, the
government is fast in funding these research programs which allow them to progress as they do.

World’s first human-operated bipedal robot; Retrieved from:
http://www.bbc.com/travel/story/20171205-why-south-korea-is-an-ideal-breeding-ground-for-robots

Aside from the challenges with the elderly population, the challenges when it comes to
the lack of help for those suffering from mental illnesses, and the challenges that those within the
LGBTQ community face every day, perhaps the biggest challenge that South Korea has, is one
that began since Korea’s Separation: Tension between North and South Korea. For nearly seven
decades, tension between the two sides has been relatively active and high, and although tensions
have been beginning to decline between the two countries, the border that keeps both sides from
going into war (again) is very thin. In 2010, tensions rose between North and South Korea, when
South Korea refused to listen to North Korea’s warning when told to stop military drilling in
between the two countries (Fertoli, 2010). This caused North Korea to bomb the area, which
killed at least four people and injured a dozen others (Fertoli, 2010). Since then, Moon Kae-in
(current South Korean president) and Kim Jong-un (leader of North Korea) have been trying to
ease the tension, and their goal has been to reach an ultimate status of peace between the two
countries (Panda, 2018); but differences in leading styles and in customs, may prove that to be a
very difficult challenge to accomplish. If achieved however, this can be marvelous for both
populations (Panda, 2018). With time, this challenge has the potential to eventually become a
strength (if they reach a status of peace).

Moon Kae-in & Kim Jong-un; retrieved from:
https://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy/article/2165398/north-south-korea-ease-military-tensions-how-close-are-they

​

Although South Korea is fond, as well as welcoming when it comes to differing religions

and customs, when it comes to diversity, they have a bit of a challenge with cultural competence.
In fact many South Koreans have complained of the “growing intolerance” towards foreigners,
going as far as to having “Korean-only” bars, which sparked outrage in the society (Meinecke,
2016). This discriminatory behavior is still occurring in the country because there are no
anti-discriminatory laws in place to protect foreigners from discrimination itself, and efforts to
change this have failed (Meinecke, 2016). Ethno-national and linguistic homogeneity have been
the norm for South Korea for many years, and it is going to be rather difficult to change that.
They have always, ever since Korea was founded 5,000 years ago, been a “one race”, “one blood
country”, and they have taken great pride in that fact (Park, 2017). The government however, is
trying to be more tolerant and more exploratory to foreigners in recent years however, as they
began exploring the water on immigration primarily focusing on temporary workers (Park,
2017).

Seoul; retrieved from:
https://www.remotelands.com/travelogues/taking-a-stroll-through-seoul-the-streets-of-south-koreas-capital/

References
'In Korea, there is no mental health': Barriers to treatment. (2017, June 29). Retrieved from​
http://www.intheforefront.org/in-korea-there-is-no-mental-health-barriers-to-treatment/
Britannica, T. E. (1998, July 20). Ch'ŏndogyo. Retrieved from​
https://www.britannica.com/topic/Chondogyo
Byung-Sun Oh (1997). Cultural Values and Human Rights : The Korean Perspective. Retrieved from​
https://www.hurights.or.jp/archives/focus/section2/1998/03/cultural-values-and-human-rights​
the-korean-perspective.html
Cheondogyo. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Cheondogyo
Economy and Business Opportunities from South Korea. (n.d.). Retrieved from​
https://www.globaltenders.com/economy-of-south-korea.php
Fertoli, A. (2010, November 23). Tensions Rise Between North and South Korea | WQXR | New York's​
Classical Music Radio Station. Retrieved from https://www.wqxr.org/story/102134-tensions-rise​
between-north-and-south-korea/
Geography of South Korea. (n.d.). Retrieved from​
http://web.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Geography_of_South_Korea
Government of South Korea. (n.d.). Retrieved from​
http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Government_of_South_Korea
History of South Korea. (n.d.). Retrieved from​
https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/History_of_South_Korea#cite_note-9

Mailonline, I. C. (2015, October 23). Suicidal people are locked into coffins in 'death experience' schools​
in South Korea. Retrieved from https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3284587/Learn​
deadday-Suicidal-people-locked-coffins-bizarre-death-experience-schools-South-Korea-40​
people-kill-day.html
Manzella, S. (2018, February 05). How Gay-Friendly Is South Korea? Retrieved from​
http://www.newnownext.com/lgbt-in-south-korea/02/2018/
Meinecke, S. (2016, February 24). South Korea's struggle with cultural diversity | DW | 24.02.2016.​
Retrieved from https://www.dw.com/en/south-koreas-struggle-with-cultural-diversity/a-19069733
Mincheva, Y. (2017, November 04). Korea: Causes of the Tremendous Growth. Retrieved from ​
https://voxukraine.org/en/korea-causes-of-the-tremendous-growth/
Noland, M. (2014, January/February). Six Markets to Watch: South Korea. Retrieved from​
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/south-korea/2013-12-06/six-markets-watch-south-korea
O’Connor, J. B., & Batalova, J. (2019, April 25). Korean Immigrants in the United States. Retrieved from​
https://www.migrationpolicy.org/article/korean-immigrants-united-states
Panda, A. (2018, September 29). How close are North and South Korea to a nuclear-free peninsula?​
Retrieved from https://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy/article/2165398/north-south-korea​
ease-military-tensions-how-close-are-they
Park, Y. (2017, March 28). South Korea Carefully Tests the Waters on Immigration, With a Focus on​
Temporary Workers. Retrieved from https://www.migrationpolicy.org/article/south-korea​
carefully-tests-waters-immigration-focus-temporary-worker
Religion in Korea. (n.d.). Retrieved from​
http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Religion_in_Korea#Religion_in_South_Korea
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY IN KOREA. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.stofficeseoul.ch/research​
innovation/in-south-korea/science-technology-in-korea

Seth, M. J. (2017, December 11). South Korea's Economic Development, 1948–1996. Retrieved from​
https://oxfordre.com/asianhistory/view/10.1093/acrefore/9780190277727.001.0001/acrefore​
9780190277727-e-271
Smith, N. (2018, October 07). Old people struggle to survive as South Korea becomes 'aged society'.​
Retrieved from https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/10/07/old-people-struggle-survive-south​
korea-becomes-aged-society/
South Korea. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.everyculture.com/Ja-Ma/South-Korea.html
South Korea Population (LIVE). (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://www.worldometers.info/world-population/south-korea-population/
South Korea Public Holidays 2019. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://publicholidays.co.kr/2019-dates/
South Korea: History. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://globaledge.msu.edu/countries/south-korea/history
The Statistic of Seoul. (2018, July 19). Retrieved from
https://www.seoulsolution.kr/en/content/statistic-seoul
The Value and Meaning of the Korean Family. (n.d.). Retrieved from​
https://asiasociety.org/education/value-and-meaning-korean-family

Table of Contents
Syllabi

Immigrant Interview Paper
CHS 220 Spring 2019
200 points
The purpose of this paper is for you to learn about the immigrant experience from a specific
individual’s perspective. The individual can be a family member but does not have to be. It does
not matter whether the person is a documented or undocumented immigrant. The person you
select must have been old enough at the time s/he came to this country to answer the
questions meaningfully. It is important that you give the person a chance to talk about their
experience and not continuously ask questions.
I am providing some sample questions. You do not have to ask these exact questions but you
must cover each of the topics. It is better to ask open-ended questions in order to obtain
information, but at times, it will be necessary to ask questions, which require one or two word
answers. Be sure that the person is willing to answer all the different topics that you need to
cover.
After you complete your interview, you will write a paper (either traditional format or questions
followed by answers and double-spaced) which addresses the questions asked and then includes
a reflection by you that should cover 1)what you learned from the interview, 2)what
surprised you and 3)how your views might have changed based on the interview.
Suggested Questions
What country did you come from?
Describe it.
What are the customs and traditions of your country?
How is family defined?
What are the expectations of children? How are they treated?
What was your occupation in your country of origin? Describe it.
What is the religion of your home country?
Describe the roles of men and women in your country.
How are the elderly treated?
What kind of prejudice, discrimination or oppression did you experience in your country?
What was your reason for leaving your country?
How did you feel leaving your country?
What language(s) did you speak? What language(s) do you speak in the United States? If more
than one language is spoken in the US, where or when is each language spoken?
How many of your family members came with you? How did this affect your experience?
How many family members did you have in the United States prior to coming? How did this
impact on your experience?
What occupation do you practice in the United States? If there was a change, please talk about
why your occupation changed.
How is your mode of dress similar or different from what you wore in your native country?
What foods did you eat in your native country? How is your diet in the United States similar or
different?
What religion do you practice in the United States?
What type of prejudice, discrimination or oppression have you experienced in the United States?

How is where you live now (housing as well as location) similar or different from your country
of origin?
What changes have you made since coming to the United States?
Describe the hardest part of your adjustment to the United States. What has been the easiest
part of your adjustment?
What do you think is important for Americans to know about the immigration experience?
Be sure to complete your reflection, which is described in the directions.

Table of Contents
Syllabi

CHS 220 Diversity and Cultural Competence
Response Papers, Spring 2019
Response Paper 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h7mzj0cVL0Q
Please watch the assigned video and answer the following:
Write a reaction to the video. Be sure to address implicit bias, race, racism and white supremacy.
Do you agree or disagree with Robin Diangelo's explanations? Explain.
Response Paper 2
Think about the words you use and the things you say. What comments do you make or what
words do you use that could offend someone if they overheard you or make someone feel
excluded? Why do you use those words or make those comments?
Who are you prejudiced against? Where does that prejudice stem from and is it something you
would like to change. Explain.
Share your experience with microaggressions either that you have committed or that have been
committed against you. How have they influenced you or how do you think they might affect the
other person?
How has discrimination affected your life?
Response Paper 3
Before this paper is due, you will have been involved in three debates, two as participants and
one as a judge. Each time you were in an assigned role. The purpose of this paper is to give you
the opportunity to share which side you personally would have chosen for each debate.
Please choose a side for each of the three debates, explain why you would have chosen that side,
and provide support for your position.
The paper should be a minimum of two full pages, double-spaced and a 12-point font.
Table of Contents
Syllabi

Hannah Fonti ​​
February 3, 2019
Professor Weiner
CHS 220
​

​

​

Sample Response Paper

We live in a modern world, and yet, some of our beliefs and practices regarding race

reveal that our world may not be as developed as we would like. Looking at Baltimore City
specifically, Freddie Gray is the perfect example that racism still exists in our society today.
Racial profiling is common enough in our society that the term “Driving While Black” or DWB

is used to address being pulled over by police officers for no apparent reason. Robin DiAngelo,
through her presentation “Deconstructing White Privilege,” discusses racism in our society
through her “white experience”; while informative about bias, racism and white superiority, she
fails to address what we, as a society or as individuals, can do outside of recognition of racism.
​

DiAngelo opens with how our country was founded on race and unequal power, she uses

an example that could be understood by the masses explaining how men gave women the right to
vote. She claims that this practice continues through “group prejudice backed by institutional
power.” Her claim is easily seen through school and neighborhood segregation, she notes that
bad neighborhoods are considered neighborhoods with people of color. What she fails to address
about the school and neighborhood segregation is why this occurs; lower class neighborhoods
are generally filled with people of color because of the cycle of poverty, statistics reveal that
people of color are paid less than their white counterparts as well as the fact that women of color
are paid even less then men of color. White supremacy is the dominant factor in these examples.
While I feel that she does address neighborhood segregation she fails to address the cause
(poverty) and without, there is a loss in the value of the information she presents.
​

While talking about being white, DiAngelo mentions that everyone has their own

experience and promoting the concept of universalism fails in allowing people to feel that their
experience is real. Furthermore, the concept of individualism is also knocked by claiming that it
is perpetuated by the dominant group (white). My main issue with both of her statements is that
is appears that she does not have a clear answer as to what stance we should have (individualism
vs universalism). When I was going through primary school I lived in a predominantly white
suburb and often had one or two black people in school. As I went on to high school, I was
accepted into a magnet program that was in a neighborhood people often felt was unsafe and

impoverished. When I told my friends and certain family members I was told to be careful
because I might get stabbed. The school was no longer mostly white and in fact was dominated
by people of color. Through that experience I was able to see that the neighborhood was no more
dangerous than the other neighborhoods, but rather people just viewed it as such because the
dominant group was no longer white. Weed was extremely prevalent in the area, yet the “nice,
white school” had many students overdosing on heroin.
​

DiAngelo is correct in saying we all have our own experience but how can I tell who has

had what experience and how to assess a situation properly. Which opens our eyes to the
good/bad binary mentioned throughout the video, the bad or racist people often have specific
characteristics associated with them and she says this binary prevents us from seeing people in a
different light. But in personal experience, often this binary is true. My grandfather is an old
white, republican, trump supporter and often stands behind his very similar racist beliefs, beliefs
that extend beyond race to other ways that people live their lives. Not to say that I do not care
about my grandfather but I vehemently disagree with him and often feel like I am in a losing
battle when trying to discuss race. Implicit bias is rampant in our society and while not always
correct, certain people do fit into that binary, often stereotypes are stereotypes for a reason. Not
to say that we should not give people a chance but rather to address that implicit bias is created
through experience. The good bad binary, while maybe should be considered as not totally
accurate can often reign true.
Robin DiAngelo opens a dialogue about the rampant and obvious racism that occurs in
our society but misses the mark when it comes to clarifying meaning. When the video ends, the
viewer is left with more questions about their implicit bias and how to assess themselves and
others. The presentation opens a can of worms, failing to discuss a solution as to how this can be

fixed in our society. The apparent answer seems to be that it will take multiple generations before
racism is truly less of a problem than it is now. But again, DiAngelo misses the mark on a full
explanation of the purpose outside of recognizing the problem.

Table of Contents
Syllabi

​

CHS 224 RESEARCH METHODS & WRITING
Spring 2019

INSTRUCTOR INFORMATION
LORYN S. LESSER, Ph.D.
Stevenson email: llesser@stevenson.edu
Office location: LRC 111 HOURS by APPOINTMENT
COURSE INFORMATION
CHS 224 Research Methods & Writing
Section number: ON 1
Credits: 3
Prerequisite(s): Sophomore status and one of the following: CHS 101, PSY 101 or SOC 101, or permission of the program
coordinator.
Classroom or Studio Location: Manning S 313
Scheduled Class Days and Time: MWF 11:00-11:50
Course Description: Introduces social science research methods. Emphasis is on formulating research questions, developing
search and data-gathering strategies, and interpreting research in the areas of human services, social work, counseling, and
psychology. Students analyze current research and present their findings.
Instructional Methods Used in this Course: Lecture, group projects, fieldwork, & online components.
Required and Recommended Texts, Manuals, and Supplies: OER and other readings, must have Microsoft Office
account

COURSE OUTCOMES
Course Objectives/Learning Outcomes: At the end of this course, students are expected to be able to
I.​ Demonstrate competence with the scientific method
II.​ Read, comprehend, and critically evaluate peer-reviewed articles
III.​ Search extant data bases for relevant materials on any topic
IV.​ Write a coherent research proposal and present in class.
V.​ Describe the place of ethics in social research
To determine if this course fulfills additional program or track outcomes, please see the department chair or program
coordinator.

GRADING STANDARDS
Grading Scale:
A

93-100

4.0

A-

90-92

3.7

B+

87-89

3.3

B

83-86

3.0

B-

80-82

2.7

C+

77-79

2.3

C

70-76

2.0

D

60-69

1.0

F

1-59

0.0

Students must earn a minimum grade of “D” in courses that are used to fulfill the SEE requirements. For courses that
fulfill both major requirements and SEE requirements, a minimum grade of “C” is required.
Course Requirements: See course calendar for dates
​
​
Exams (3) 100 points each, Research Proposal: 200 points, Research Presentation: 100 points, Critical Review: 100
points. Various In-Class Assignments: 10 points each, other projects as assigned
​​

​

Course Requirements:

Readings
Advance preparation is mandatory, as students will be expected to synthesize, analyze, and evaluate the
readings in terms of academic knowledge as well as personal and professional experience. Grading will
take into consideration punctuality, consistency, completion of in-class and outside-class assignments,
expressive participation, and receptive participation.
Participation (possible 100 points)
Regular class attendance and participation are necessary to pass and/or do well in this and indeed all courses. Students are
encouraged to be punctual and regular to class as class discussions are likely to draw on materials not covered by the assigned
readings. Various in-class assignments are worth 10 points.

Exams (100 points each)
There will be three in-class exams. Each will combine multiple-choice and essay questions. The
questions in these exams will be drawn from our class discussions and the assigned reading. These exams
will be non-cumulative.
Research Proposal (200 points)
Each student will write a research proposal that has potential for contributing to current knowledge in the student’s chosen
topic/interest. Students will develop this proposal, in stages, throughout the semester. Each part of the proposal may be
rewritten/improved using comments on the original version. Students are encouraged to maintain a folder for all their work in
this assignment. This assignment, details of which are laid out in this syllabus, is worth 200 points.
Critical Review Paper (100 points)
Each student will write a critical review paper of an assigned reading. The student will use the title of the article as title for this
paper. This paper will summarize the article, highlighting the key points, issues raised, or conclusions arrived at by the author(s),
and how the research for the paper was done. It should be written from the perspective of the student, focusing on methodological

and analytic issues. Students will offer a critique of the material and conclude with their own thoughts. (See Rubric for Critical
Review Paper). This assignment is worth 100 points, the same as a test grade.
Presentation (100 points)
Students will be presenting their research proposals in class. They will demonstrate their grasp of the research process, share
insights on their topics from the research, speculate on the prospective contribution their research could make, highlight the
problems/limitations they anticipate and how they would overcome them. It is an opportunity for students to engage each other,
availing themselves the benefit of the knowledge produced by their individual research effort. This assignment is worth 100
points, the same as a test grade.
If class is canceled due to the weather or other unforeseen reason, the lesson will be posted on Blackboard. It is the student’s
responsibility to check Blackboard and complete any posted assignments!

COURSE POLICIES
Policies: The Professor must PRE-APPROVE all requests for work to be submitted after the due date and to
schedule make-up exams​
CELL PHONE USE IS NOT PERMITTED IN CLASS WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION!
Classroom Policies: Regular class attendance and participation are necessary to pass and/or do well in this and indeed
all courses. Students are encouraged to be punctual and regular to class as class discussions are likely to draw on
materials not covered by the assigned readings. If class is canceled due to the weather or other unforeseen reason,
the lesson will be posted on Blackboard. It is the student’s responsibility to check Blackboard and complete any
posted assignments!
Submission of Assignments or Projects: APA format is required for all work. Assignments must be typewritten.
Assignments may be hand delivered to your Professor or sent in using the Professor’s Stevenson email address.
Cell phones may not be used in the classroom!
Attendance
Each student is responsible for his or her own class attendance and regular attendance is expected. Every student is
responsible for the material covered or the skills exercised during scheduled classes. Grades will be based on
demonstrated achievement of the objectives of the course, not on attendance in class as such. Students who stop
attending and fail to officially withdraw from a class will be given a grade of "FX" which calculates as an "F" in the
GPA.
Course-Specific Attendance
Regular class attendance and participation are necessary to pass and/or do well in this and indeed all courses.
Students are encouraged to be punctual and regular to class as class discussions are likely to draw on materials
not covered by the assigned readings.
SEE “PARTICIPATION” ABOVE!
If class is canceled due to the weather or other unforeseen reason, the lesson will be posted on Blackboard. It is
the student’s responsibility to check Blackboard and complete any posted assignments.

UNIVERSITY GUIDELINES
Diversity Statement
Stevenson University commits itself to diversity as it relates to awareness, education, respect, and practice at every level
of the organization. The University embraces people of all backgrounds, defined by, but not limited to, ethnicity, culture,
race, gender, class, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, physical ability, learning
styles, and political perspectives. The University believes its core values are strengthened when all of its members have
voice and representation. The resulting inclusive organizational climate promotes the development of broad-minded
members of the University who positively influence their local and global communities.

Standards of Academic Integrity
Stevenson University expects all members of its community to behave with integrity. Honesty and integrity provide the
clearest path to knowledge, understanding, and truth – the highest goals of an academic institution. For students, integrity
is fundamental to the development of intellect, character, and the personal and professional ethics that will govern their
lives and shape their careers. Stevenson University embraces and operates in a manner consistent with the definitions and
principles of Academic Integrity as set forth by the International Center for Academic Integrity.
Students are expected to model the values of academic integrity (honesty, trust, fairness, respect, responsibility, and
courage) in all aspects of this course.
Students will be asked to assent to and to uphold the University Honor Pledge:
“I pledge on my honor that I have neither given nor received
unauthorized assistance on this assignment/exam.”
Suspected violations of the Academic Integrity Policy will be reported and investigated as outlined in the Policy
Manual, Volume V.

ACADEMIC SERVICES AND RESOURCES
Disability Services ​
Stevenson University will make reasonable accommodations for students with documented disabilities. The
Office of Disability Services (ODS) facilitates equal access for every student who self-identifies as having a
disability. If you are a student with a disability who needs accommodations in this class, please contact the
Director of Disability Services located in Garrison Hall South Room 138 or send an email to
ODS@stevenson.edu. Once accommodations are authorized by ODS, please provide me (your instructor) with
your approved accommodations memo as soon as possible. Accommodations are not retroactive.
This is the link to the University’s Office of Disability Services:
http://www.stevenson.edu/academics/academic-resources/disability-support-services/
Academic Link​
The John L. Stasiak Academic Link, located on Owings Mills in the Center for Student Success (GHS 101),
provides free tutoring for many classes. If you are having difficulty with or would benefit from discussing the material
with an upper level peer, seek assistance early in the semester. Tutoring often makes a difference in a student’s grade.
To view the tutoring schedule and sign up for an appointment, go to stevenson.go-redrock.com, visit the Link in
person, or call 443-394-9300.
SU LIBRARY
The SU Library provides extensive electronic and print resources to support your coursework. Research Guides and
databases can be found on the library home page, as well as brief tutorials to assist you in using these resources. A
professional librarian is always available to help you find the best information sources for your needs. For more
information about library services, please visit: http://stevenson.libguides.com/stevensonlibrary

ONLINE LEARNING RESOURCES

Atomic Learning (Hoonuit), available through Blackboard, is an online learning resource available to all Stevenson
students that provides video tutorials for instruction on a wide variety of topics.

THE WELLNESS CENTER
Stress is a normal part of being a student. However, if personal, emotional, or physical concerns are interfering with
your ability to be successful at Stevenson, please call the Wellness Center at 443-352-4200 to make an appointment.
More information about the Wellness Center can be found at: http://www.stevenson.edu/student-life/health-wellness/

STEVENSON EDUCATION EXPERIENCE (SEE) LEARNING GOALS AND OUTCOMES
SU Goal No. 1: Intellectual Development (ID)
The SU graduate will use inquiry and analysis, critical and creative thinking, scientific reasoning, and quantitative skills to gather and
evaluate evidence, to define and solve problems facing his or her communities, the nation, and the world, and to demonstrate an
appreciation for the nature and value of the fine arts.
​
SU Goal No. 2: Communication (C)
The SU graduate will communicate logically, clearly, and precisely using written, oral, non-verbal, and electronic means to acquire,
organize, present, and/or document ideas and information, reflecting an awareness of situation, audience, purpose, and diverse points
of view.
SU Goal No. 3: Self, Societies, and the Natural World (SSNW)
The SU graduate will consider self, others, diverse societies and cultures, and the physical and natural worlds, while engaging with world
problems, both contemporary and enduring.
SU Goal No. 4: Experiential Learning (EL)
The SU graduate will connect ideas and experiences from a variety of contexts, synthesizing and transferring learning to new, complex
situations.
SU Goal No. 5: Career Readiness (CR)
The SU graduate will demonstrate personal direction, professional know-how, and discipline expertise in preparation for entry into the
workplace or graduate studies.
SU Goal No. 6: Ethics in Practice (EIP)
The SU graduate will practice integrity in the academic enterprise, professional settings, and personal relationships.

